Joanne tele interview 3 Mel
Midwife
Clients - wide range. Pregnant, couples (partners often involved  in meetings) high international Indian, Shri Lankan, a Chinese Japanese a few kiwis  
I am Canadian. 
How long a midwife   14 years almost 15 years
How many years now in CH
June 2019
In NZ model I am an LMC so work in community – from early preg, pregnancy thru to  birth up to  – 4-6 weeks post natal so most are in their  community. Most visits out of clinic in home in lockdown zoon
How was it ‘weird at first works reasonably well antenatal I did a far a number of bookings 
Found could share screen – at first used 2 devices but then with a shared screen they could see what I was doing  
Typing up notes ? –
Yes 
Can you describe a booking? 
When we have met and they decided to sign up with me , Longest we do med history etc a reasonably involved one 
Length time?
Usually 1 and a half  to 2 hours 
Yes 1 and a half minimum. 
How many during lock down?
 Probably at least 8 
One thing that zoom meetings did  - I found links to handouts and give them in the notes so I have gone more paper less because of lock down 
(Summary by Mel) 
Shared link in an AP - They can down load app and see all notes – its almost able to be seen as soon as I type
A lot of things on that, a tab for resources and there is where I had the midwifery web site and antenatal info
So a change from  paper to technology in way designed implemented did it in lockdown 
I have some printed but let them choose 
Then you said antenatal appts – how did they work ?
They were Ok – at time told to limit face to face to 15 mins
Call first before you saw them 
Took a long time organising 2 appts for everyone 
I tried to do them back to back 
Thank goodness I was  not too busy in that time 
Found that when doing face-to-face it  would end up taking  longer than the 15 mins
Most women would say more then, than  on zoom 
So while told to limit 15  - so when in room opened up more?
 ‘Yes esp with post-natals  
On phone one women said Breast feeding  going fine but  when I got there mentioned cracked nipples 
I gave up on zoom post-natal 
MostI had  been with in labour so I was a little slack postnatally
So ante-natally tried to do pre appointment  discussion and then visit – but drawn not more conversation at that time 
We did do fewer meetings fact to face 
Eg if just had a  scan done did not need to listen to heart beat could wait 
In thirds trimester did not want to miss BP
Did you use your phone?
 Some had no access, some I would zoom and if using iphone and they were moving  around 
Most of the time it  worked out well 
Some clients were better with tech showed me what to do 
Some couldnt use zoom was that access?
They did not have a computer or internet 
One I did a booking in person as she had no computer . She then went missing for months so……. ??
When you did that booking face-to-face did you wear PPE – that’s what they said to do
No, we tried to sit two-meters apart 
Where were guidelines coming from ?
Every where, but read college of midwives 
Got things from Southland still, and Ministry health, 
It seemed we were totally overwhelmed with emails about changes to practice 
Full time job keeping up with emails 
When started what was your level of comfort with technology?
I had done a few zoom workshop from the states so use to using zoom a little and then we did practice meetings by zoom 
So we did have a practice meeting by zoom just  before lock down.  I practised for that by zooming my son.
What do you cover in practice meetings?
Practice meeting debrief any issues with births at beginning  ………..(missed a bit) 
We managed these the whole time 
How many ?
There were 5 of us (one on holiday)
Practice meetings our way to connect, we make it our priority 
Worked quiet well to do zoom 
Debriefing about births  Did you talk about future pts etc at that time?
We usually reviewed clients  due in next month , the ones that had burst, then then coming up or wanted complain about  (laughter joke)
Did you choose zoom yourself – we you aware of other modalities 
Fairly aware of others  prior to lock down more confutable on zoom
One person wanted to use face time and I did that but did not like it as not as familiar.
Did you need a camera look  be able to see the other person? 
Def I like to see people and that made it more personable , They could see what I was typing . I liked that.  Would not want to do all by zoom though
After lockdown the Rolleston client we did by zoom when she did not want to travel 
Would you have done that before? 
No probably only people moving to chch had not thought about doing it locally before 
Where were the  women? 
Everyone  talked to at home 
Partners, children running around? 
Partners def there, a few kids not a huge distraction 

????? (I missed a piece in here)

Sounded like bookings went well but pre appt then make another appt (15moins) doesn’t work 
What tips or strategies did you have that worked?
He first in lock down found some courses on zoom. Practice cie with my son taught me abou the different view settings   
Tried to learn about the technology 
You also said you learnt to share screen 
Yes 
Sharing tips with others on practice was fun so having the group support was benefical when life changing so fast 
Any situations when not an affective way 
Made it work 
 You said you have a range of  ethnicities  Did that  change things for some? 
Do not think so 
Some did not have English first language?
In that scenario often one on the couple can be interpreter so did not have worry too much. Harder in labour revert to  mother tongue at that time 
Where there any complexities that arose to work out using zoom – critical instances 
Probably no but there were a few who did not make contact as early as they would have 
Eg the women said all fine then had cracked and bleeding nipples not the right story
 So zoom impacted  on telling the story 
But in that circumstances had been a phone cal  would I pick up with cameras on, maybe? 
Did you get any feedback from the women?
They seemed to think it was  ok for the  times; but relieved when back to regular fact to face meetings
They coped at the time 
But Joyful to get back to face and Face (Mel)
May be times hungry for contact or was it the midwifery aspect? 
Using telehealth –   Did you have a structure ?
No did what  I would do in person 
Chat answer questions 
If nothing to say would ask a question then carry on form there 
Not diff than in person?
No
You sai already you were ware of guidelines?
I think they came out when further into it I  got tired of reading stuff then 
Using College of midwives (Mel) 
Yes 
Based on experience  in lock down what would you have liked know beforehand? 
You mentioned learning on line?
I found what I needed at the time but had done a few seminars by zoom
What was foreign was me initiating meetings 
Has it changed practice e.g. the women in Rolleston ?
Potentially if someone lived out of town  e.g. repeat I may consider that but would depend on her anything else 
If someone was hesitant to get together I know we have the tools to do  it 
Would use as an option sooner than a year ago 
Mel - on line then met
What worked well was when we did not need to do the physical part 
They did not like doing the two meetings for one appointment  
(Mel referred back to aligning the scan meeting or seen an obstetrician)
I have head other people talk about telehealth but did not think about it as telehealth I was just doing appointments.
(Trying to make midwifery work)
Yes basically. 
(Talked about how hard for pysio on telehealth )
Do you want a Copy?
 No , 
Will send collated data
 interesting yes 




 

