Midwifery transcript
Lisa – Oral consent conversation taped
Start with basic information?
Community based midwife 
LMC
MZ European/Maori
People you work with?  NZ Maori and Pacifica 
1st year of practice 
Working in community based maternity – anetnatal , post partum and beyond, Through pregnancy  
Usually home and clinic based . Clinics closed in lock down so mainly home based visit 
When did telemedicine come in?
For me it did not really work
Most clientele I work with do not have reliable access to the internet for financial reasons so…
Did you try?
A did a couple who could so I did have a couple I could  call then then pop in and rush out
Culturally its really rude to rush in take BP palpate baby and run out  
Did you have any Guidance about what was expected of you during lock down ?
Eventually 
Tell me more? 
It took a while for any guidance to come thru and it came through in bits and bobs from different places 
When it started coming thru guidance was Extending visits to make them longer between - longer between visits . Phone contact in between and go in for as short a time as possible, minimise closeness and leave again pretty quickly. 
So assessment before hand and then using a form of telehealth you phone  phone or internet …….  
I didn’t get that opportunity 
There was some suggestion  people pass scales through the window, mother weighs the baby 
But when people living close together  - privacy issues etc 
So saying …Didn’t want to do that
Where was this information coming from?
NZCoM - regional and national. Ministry of Health 
At times one contradicted each other 
Then info through social media , Canterbury midwives page, other stuff general info from people talking about it and from the DHB
The information was it contradictory?
Took a long time before any guidance came out. But the info did not take into account that not everyone has accessibility that maybe the College or the MoH thought.  That everyone does  have access to internet
Can you expand on that is that because of the clientele you work for?
Yes the guidelines that did get sent out near the end assume  everyone has access to an internet or phone . Do as much as you can by phone or internet 
 Again assume people have access when in fact they don’t 
Not just devices and internet its that sort of access?
Yes
Have you done anything like telehealth before?
No 
How did it feel when you were thrown in 
You have got No idea what you are  doing 
I suppose  its 
My big issue even with College meetings and education things is that there are lots of missed opportunities when things are done  by phone or by on line. A little coment. Things like scratching hands, scratching the heck out of their hands  Don’t see that or pick up that up  in the same  as you do when you see people. So makes you think what dot you pick up not aware of 
Did it affect you?
Not personally . As I said  I was one who kept seeing my women . You couldn’t just leave them not see them at all 
You felt you had that  responsibility 
Yes but  you are risking trapping something between houses or heaven forbid back home 
How comfortable where you when you did do telehealth? 
Rarely awkward asking about pregnancy and potentially personal questions 
So  not always great
When they call you for e.g.  bleeding or an issue with pregnancy can ask ?s with no worry about feeling   uncomfortable 
But when have some of these conversation especially early pregnancy can just feel awkward and uncomfortable I suppose 
When you were told you had to do telemedicine  conversations  - safest during lockdown - where you advised what modality to use? 
Told me about phone and zoom became the big thing . I still do not know how to set up a zoom meeting 
In the telehealth conversations you did have were there any other health professionals with you or just on your own with the women
Just most often did them in my car, generally while driving somewhere . Time management isn’t it 
  Maybe part of this job as well – make a lot of calls in car to get the job done 
I always made time to talk but did not know if anyone else was listening can ask if its OK to talk . But you have no idea of anyone else is listening to conversation
Where you hands free while talking to the women
Yes  
Tell me about your exp during Covid when you were working with it what made it easier Tips for others
Uhm don’t know – very hard to -  very short conversations – not a normal  chat on the  phone , not  its about … You know GP calls short sharp chat - this what’s going on  - changes the  role 
Changes midwifery role and how you work with women
No not same mutual  conversations that go both ways.  Not sure how you would make that happen
Did they know you were changing way working with the women?
Sent a txt asked what was a good time to call , where they free at the time 
Found some phone  numbers I was given didn’t work  - chasing tail all the time 
 You talked about body langiage, equipment  - any other things that impacted on you ?
Using zoom was not an effective for assessment 
Impacting on me ? No – on the women
(explanation by Mel )
Probably some of my higher risk women physically seeing them is a big part of knowing they are safe and are well 
Can be in violent homes or drug use – seeing them is iprtant– comes down to social issues. If not seeing people (pause)   preferred seeing them 
What about Maori and other ethnicities?
Can not do work if cannot access 
If we go into lock down again or things got worse has to be a point when things have to cut out People like me have to make the call 
The inequity what helps them what service will that women get if she has no access to anything ‘That women gets left behind 
M – as she does not have access its an inequity? 
May not be financial may be control or anything . It is not the cost it is the women being controlled 
Other ethnicities ? any onewhere  English is  not their  first language? 
I have a couple women who do not speak English 
Use the phone translation service. 
But cannot  do a three way phone call 
Have you had  feedback from anyone  
From one of then 
Flyting in doing doing a  physical assessment and out is a bit rude . I said I agree. 
 Culturally that is rude as well.
That was the way people advised you to do your visit (reiterated by M)
Didn’t last for long thought thank goodness 
In hindsight what did or would have supported your use of telemedicine?
I don’t know actually 
Was thinking about this listening to news 
2 more cases in ChCH 
What would you do and  I do not know unfortunately
 If in another part of chch people could use equip etc would it be easier?
I suspect so 
Where you aware of MoH guidelines 
Did not know there were any
You talked guidelines you got  from NZCom
Did they have any 
Not aware they  just preferred it done on line 
Conversation then physical assessment 
Did you have a mental check list template you used ?
You do  the same as for antenatal clinic 
Go through the questions you ask routinely 
Made sure they were Ok being stuck at home for a long time 
Examples ?
Biggest one How is your baby moving? Reiterated that as important. 
The other one – doing urine analysis but all preeclampsia screening 
But also straight up asking “How are you feeling?” Are you coping in geeral?  Survivingthe  madness of it al.l
Open questions How are you doing   I ask a lot in clinic too. IT gives people the opportunity to dump  if they want 
What is going on ? 
What do you want to talk to me about 
Open ended conversation 
I know that sucks  - are you alright with it all
Have you had any training in using tele med equip etc  ?
No
Have you sourced any  PD in technical aspects of  telemed 
No
Lastly – if we go into lockdown again what key learning needs have you identified. What would you like to know 
For me, I How do I manage my case load and the complexities of my case load from a distance 
That is the harder part of it isn’t it – that’s definitely it. How to do that and how you do it from a distance   
Interesting everyone else seemed to shut down we didn’t
We being mid wives?
That is how I felt a little bit 
By everyone else who - ?
The GPs and everyone shut down but we didn’t get that option 
A bit on the nose too 
Has it (tele health) changed your practice at all or would it in the in future? 
No 
I am prob a bit weird like that 
If any thing probably made me firmer about like my phone going off crazy hours, outside business hours. If important make that call if not send a text in normal hours
Although I still see everything its about respecting that phone as a business tool not a 24 hr attachment 
So triaging knowing what was coming through what wasn’t?
Anything else?
No.
My biggest thing with Telemedicine is and always has been (which why I did this) it needed to be more aware and if anything to be more thoughtful of people who do not fit in the box 
Can you expand on that for me 
That people that you know, whether Maori or Pacific,  really  low socioeconomic  or those that choose to live off the grid  whatever  those that that do not fit in - do not for in the  European  work 9-5,  pay bills, have internet, don’t tick right boxes end up with poorer health outcomes  
This is another way it leads to poor hour health outcomes  
 While in lock down any critical incidents you could not use telehealth for 
Yes, I had to take them into hospital , a 23 weeker Pre RM  -  Premature  Rapture Membranes 
So have labours births so completely in contact with people anyway . In our job unavoidable anyway
Do you want a copy of transcript – No 

  